#summary Installation
#labels Featured

/usr/bin/input-pad is a standalone application to show the input-pad GUI and all characters on character table are output on stdout. To send the characters other text applications, you need to use an input method. Currently IBus supports input-pad, which is one of the most major input methods, and ibus-input-pad is the IBus engine. ibus-input-pad requires input-pad.

Please refer http://code.google.com/p/ibus/ for IBus topics.
You might need to restart ibus-daemon to enable ibus-input-pad .

usage:
{{{
% input-pad --help
}}}

= Fedora =
Fedora provides the official packages.
== Fedora 12, 13 ==

{{{
# yum install input-pad
# yum install ibus-input-pad
}}}

devel package:
{{{
# yum install input-pad-devel
}}}

python package:
{{{
# yum install input-pad-python
}}}

  * input-pad-xtest is available to use X11 XTEST extension but it is provided for the test purpose only at present.

== Fedora rawhide ==

rawhide also provide eekboard GUI extension [1]
{{{
# yumdownloader --enablerepo=rawhide input-pad
# yumdownloader --enablerepo=rawhide eekboard-libs
# yumdownloader --enablerepo=rawhide input-pad-eek
# yumdownloader --enablerepo=rawhide ibus-input-pad
# rpm -ihv input-pad-*.rpm ibus-input-pad-*.rpm
% input-pad --help
}}}

= Ubuntu =
Non-official packages are available for Ubuntu.
== Ubuntu 10 (lucid) ==

{{{
% sudo add-apt-repository ppa:takao-fujiwara/ppa
% sudo apt-get update
% sudo apt-get install libinput-pad0
% sudo apt-get install input-pad
% sudo apt-get install ibus-input-pad
}}}

devel package:
{{{
% sudo apt-get install libinput-pad-dev
}}}

python package:
{{{
% sudo apt-get install python-input-pad
}}}

  * If you wish to install packages by manual, please refer https://launchpad.net/~takao-fujiwara/+archive/ppa
  * libinput-pad-xtest is available to use X11 XTEST extension but it is provided for the test purpose only at present.

libinput-pad-eek is the eekboard GUI extension [1]
{{{
% sudo apt-get install libinput-pad-eek
% input-pad --help
}}}

[1] eekboard is a virtual keyboard for GNOME
http://github.com/ueno/eekboard